feat: add Chroma vector database configuration and documentation (#4905)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: sites/upsun/src/add-services/chroma.md

- **Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)**: Enhance LLMs with relevant context from your knowledge base
- **Recommendation Systems**: Build similarity-based recommendation engines
- **Content Classification**: Automatically categorize documents based on their semantic content
- **Duplicate Detection**: Identify similar or duplicate content across large document collections

## Configuration

### 1. Configure the Chroma application

Create a Chroma application in your `.upsun/config.yaml`:

```yaml {location=".upsun/config.yaml"}
applications:
  chroma:
    type: "python:3.12"
    container_profile: HIGH_MEMORY
    source:
      root: "chroma"
    dependencies:
      python3:
        uv: "*"

    hooks:
      build: |
        uv init
        uv add chromadb

    web:
      commands:
        start: "uv run --no-sync chroma run --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT --path /app/.db"

    mounts:
      ".db":
        source: "storage"
        source_path: "db"
      ".chroma":
        source: "storage"
        source_path: "chroma"

    variables:
      env:
        uv_CACHE_DIR: "/tmp/uv-cache"
        PYTHONPATH: "."
```

> Note that example is using a `HIGH_MEMORY` container. You can refer to the [Container profiles documentation](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.html#advanced-container-profiles) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example is using a `HIGH_MEMORY` container. You can refer to the [Container profiles documentation](/manage-resources/adjust-resources.html#advanced-container-profiles) for more information.
```

```

{{</ codetabs >}}

__While the examples above are based on Python and Node.js applications, the same concept can be applied to any other runtime.__

## Persistent storage

The configuration includes persistent storage through mounts:

- `.db`: Stores the main Chroma database files
- `.chroma`: Stores additional Chroma metadata

These mounts ensure that your vector data persists between deployments and application restarts.

## Access Chroma

Chroma runs as an internal application without external HTTP access. Other applications in your project connect to it using the `chroma.internal` hostname through relationships.

For development and debugging, you can use port forwarding to access your Chroma instance locally:

```bash
upsun tunnel:open
```

This creates a secure tunnel to your Chroma application, allowing you to connect local tools and clients during development.

## Exposing Chroma on the public internet

If you are willing to make the Chroma database publicly accessible, add a new route to the application in the `.upsun/config.yaml` file:

```yaml {filename=".upsun/config.yaml"}
routes:
  "https://chroma.{default}/":
    type: upstream
    upstream: "chroma:http"
```

> **Be mindful that exposing Chroma publicly can be sensitive from a security standpoint.**

Reviewer: Just wrapped this in a warning note for higher visibility.
